---
layout: post
title: Kivik 2.0.0-pre1 Released
subtitle: The long-awaited Kivik 2.0.0 is nearing release
date: 2019-06-09
author: Jonathan Hall
permalink: /v2-prerelease
excerpt: "I'm happy to announce that Kivik v2.0.0-pre1 has now been tagged!"
---

I'm happy to announce that Kivik v2.0.0-pre1 has now been tagged! This version
number applies to the following public packages:

- [kivik](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivik), the main Kivik library
- [couchdb](https://github.com/go-kivik/couchdb), the CouchDB driver
- [pouchdb](https://github.com/go-kivik/pouchdb), the PouchDB driver
- [kivikmock](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivikmock), the new Kivik mocking driver

This new version includes a few major enhancements, as well as a much larger
number of minor changes. Some of these changes break backward compatibility
with the v1 series, so some care must be taken when upgrading.

An overview of the biggest changes to each package is below.

- Various API changes, to improve usability. When upgrading from v1, you will
  notice compilation errors where function signatures have changes, but the
  necessary changes should be pretty self-explanatory.
- Improved error reporting. Go 1.13 will have some new standard error features.
  Prior to the Go 1.13 release, these features are available with the
  [golang.org/x/xerrors](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/xerrors) package.
  Kivik v2.0.0 takes advantage of these enhancements. Some error values are
  still subject to change prior to the final release of Kivik v2.0.0.
- A new driver, [kivikmock](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivikmock) has been
  added. Inspired by [go-sqlmock](https://github.com/DATA-DOG/go-sqlmock), this
  driver allows mocking all database requests, for use in automated tests.
- When querying views (via `Query()`, `AllDocs()`, or similar), key-related
  fields are now JSON-encoded by Kivik. This simplifies the use of this
  endpoint, but is a breaking change, as previously, raw JSON objects were
  required. You may still pass a raw JSON object by passing a key of type
  `json.RawMessage`.
- Began switching to strictly using `http.Status*` codes, rather than
  kivik-specific ones.
- The `Changes()` method was modified to support all supported modes (except
  `eventsource`). Previously, only `continuous` mode was supported.
- The `Attachment` type was completely rewritten.
- `BulkGet()` support was added, to call the `/db/_bulk_get` endpoint.
- `Ping()` support was added, which queries the new `/_up` endpoint, when
  available, to report that the database is ready or not.
- `DBsStats()` support was added, to query the new `/_dbs_info` endpoint.
- The `User-Agent` string is now set for outbound requests
- `Purge()` support was added, to query the `/db/_purge` endpoint.
- `DesignDocs()` and `LocalDocs()` support was added, to call the new
  `/db/_design_docs` and `/db/_local_docs` endpoints respectively.
- When calling `Get()`, if attachments are returned, they are now returned with
  a new, experimental `AttachmentsIterator`, to allow for more efficient
  retrieval of attachments from CouchDB, using `multipart/related` data rather
  than Base64-encoded binary attachments.

The final version of Kivik **2.0.0** should be released in aproximately 30 days.
